@Devyani
I would like to share all those things that I wish someone would have told me during my first year…

1st year:

Get good with the basics of coding concepts and learn C.
Join Hackerrank, HackerEarth, CodeChef kind of platforms.
Get into a good number of events at college such as dance, music, acting, management. Don’t miss out on anything. Because once you cross this phase, you will no longer be actively available for this anymore.
Research a lot. Look what you want to be when you leave college. Try to keep a diary to mention things you want to pursue ahead.
For e.g. List some of the profiles you are interested in like,

Software Engineer
Software Developer
Full-Stack Developer
Front End / Back End developer
Data Scientist/ Analyst
UI/UX Designer….. and many more
Decide what specific skills do you need to achieve your goal, and start learning. YES! begin your preparation.
Make contact with your seniors. Talk to them. Know their journey. You will learn a lot from seniors :-)
At the end of your first year, you should be good at C programming, and computer fundamentals.
And yes, by now you must have gained some experience in college events too. :D
2nd year:

MOST IMPORTANT YEAR OF ENGINEERING.
Get good with Data Structures, Computer Networks, Operating Systems, and DBMS. THIS IS A MUST!!! no matter what your goal is….
Learn C++, Java, SQL (For those who don’t like JAVA, at least get familiar with the basics)
Learn your favorite language and begin with small projects. Eventually, by the end of 2nd year, you should be ready for the major project(s).
70% study - 30% college events (for an average student)
Get more into hackathons kind of events. Earn badges. So that you have a good point to mention in your interviews.
Take part in Tech-Fests of college (if any)
Start improving your soft skills.
3rd year:

Get ready to get into internships and have some good work experience for your resume. (Although it’s not mandatory to have work experience, but will always be a plus point during interviews)
Get some certifications done, in your specific fields of interest. You can refer to Udemy, Coursera kind of platforms.
Do some fantastic project(s) in your 3rd year.
In most of the colleges, companies start visiting in your 3rd year itself. So be prepared.
These ‘early visiting companies’ don’t expect too much from you but want you to be good with what you have done in the last 3 years with a good technical achievement record, to see your activeness.
Make a good folder of all your certificates and documents. You will need it for upcoming drives.
4th year:

This is the most active year of all. Placement Season!!
The final year is really a very busy one! A lot of drives and you don’t even get time to revise for one last time.
You have worked hard for the first 3 years. Now calm down and wait for the opportunities that come. Don’t miss any. Apply for all where eligible.
Just focus on your speaking skills, body language, your answers, because by now you are already good at technical stuff. It’s time to rock now!
Get done with your placements, your exams, get your degree and that’s it! You did it :)
Some important points to keep in mind:

Quantitative aptitude, Logical Reasoning, and Verbal Ability is A MUST from day 1 of engineering, to be honest.
Maintain good CGPA above 7/7.5.
Maintain a good AMCAT score of above 600. The company applies this filter while shortlisting students.
DO NOT get into BACKLOGS. (Especially after 2nd year)
Always talk to your seniors. Learn from their experiences.
Get good at Group Discussions, Extemporization, kind of skills.
Wishing you all the very best!

Have a bright future ♥